Page v:
 
Ven A is an eminent document for Iliad scholia:
327 folii, possibly 11th cent. CE.
Folii 2,3,5,7, 10, & 11 are empty
Folii 8 & 9 have rough pictures from the Iliad
Folii 1,4, 6 and 8r contain Proclus’s Chrestomathy and some other stuff
There is a fragment of the preface to Aristonicus’s On the Signs of Aristarchus
Formatted into four-folio quires – except for the last two folii
21 folii fell out and were replaced without scholia or critical marks.
Page vi
25 lines each page.
There’s lots of scholia. All the main scholia is written with the same hand, with few exceptions.
At the end of each book there is a footnote detailing where the scholia have come from, specifically the works of Aristonicus, Didymus, Herodian, and Nicanor.
 
Page vii
The intermarginal contains whole excerpts form Aristonic and Didymus, as it allows the scribe to discuss and evaluate the selections of Zenodotus and Aristarchus.
Many intermarginal have the same or nearly the same words as a marginal scholia, and seem to just be redacted. Still, this is not universal law. Many main scholia which discuss the Zen and Arch. Do not reappear in intermarginal.
Therefore they must come from some other grammarian and not from main scholia. Sometimes though the inter does refer to main scholia. There seems to be another source, very similar to the main scholia, that provides the basis for the intermarginal.
 
Page viii
:”It is apparent from these things that both scholia are of the same type and origin, and that the interginal differ from the main to the degree that there are excerpts in the intermarignal, sometimes greater in length, other times less, from another very similar example.
 
ix.
 
marks these instances with an asterisk.
 
There is a third type of scholia: interlinear scholia which are glosses on words. They copious throughout the first two books and become less frequent as the manuscript goes on. These appears above the wrods of the text, sometimes they occur in the intermarginal space.
There is another type of intermarginal scholia which deals with stuff written by others beforehand (en allw, gr. Gr. Kai.).
x
Many in this category are simply errors in reading by other scholars rather than legitimate differences among readings. More significant differences, with generally look toward the Aristarchean recension include the adverb dixws. – look into Hoffmanus Proleg. P. 177
 
In terms of orthography, the syntax and spelling of the scholia matches that of the text, though there are more often errors in the scholia than in the text.
xi.
All arguments about the origin of the scholia stem from the same aforementioned subscription .
From comparative evidence in scholia of Euripides and Aristophanes, these four grammatical books were probably destroyed long before the Ven A… but there was no stated reason for those biggest and greatest changes mae at the beginning which survived in the centuries thatfollowed, as evidenced by the fact that nearly any page of the edition which we now use holds signs of these old changes. The first writer of these scholia gave priority to the things Aristonicus and Didymus say about Zen. Ar. Etc. especially in tehe inter
 
Xii
 
Like all collections of scholia,the scholiasts and grammarians of the later times were not working from a correct text to copy from, but were working separately and differently, often making additions of their own.
Quotes Lehrsius on this:
The first person to collect the scholia that would inform the Ven A probably was working with various texts, and the first copyist did their best to just stick to the source material.
With new scholarship comes new additions (Porphyri), though we don’t always get the attribution.
XIV:
Poryphry himself was used little in the Ven A, and was culled by someone using an abbreviated version of his work.
Sometimes there will an attribution given to the person undergoing the line of inquiry (istoria).
 
XV. Sometimes, the grammarians would would be lumped together under the same heading of “historia” and considered as being part of one whole work.
Scholars have already done the work to show how important it is to separate out the work of these four people.
We owe to Aristonicus and Didymus alone the things we have about Zen. Aristarch. Aristoph.
We have a lot but never more than just a part – b/c or the epitomists, scribes, and b/c of Artistonicus and Didymus themselves as they merely excerpted from the works of Aristarchus and his school about those three. I.e. sometimes the work of Zen. Et al was gotten at via conjecture.
xvi
Still they brought enough to the table concerning the writings of Aristrarchus that leaves little room for doubt.
Zenodotus often is cited only to put forth absurd or metrics violating alternatives. To Dindorf this seems absurd and he posits that these absurd lines are from errors in the books at Library at Alexandria, which he headed, and which he had pointed out as errors, not genuine suggestions.
Although it is clear that the majority of the scholia are more Aristarchean in nature than Zenodotean or Aristophean, one cannot say with certainty which is which, or say specifically which display the reasoning of Aristarchus.
xvii
While Aristarchus is fantastic, one should beware of following him blindly, as many of his followers did. He is not perfect. Many commentators today point this out. Many errors come from ignorance of the digamma, which was not known in Aristarchus’ time.
Even some older commentators found issue with Aristarchus, most notably Crates Mallota.
XVIII
The critical signs attached to individual lines undoubtably recall the work of Aristarchus, even if some of the signs have been lost or changed over time.
XIX
While Zenodotus and Aristophanes had their own signs, the obelos, the asterisk, the asterisk obelos combo, the diple, dotted diple, and antisigma were unique to Aristarchus, and their use is explained by Aristonicus.
While there were signs written before the scholia, the majority of these have been left out, such that only 150 remain. It is too hard to go about refilling in the missing critical signs, as one cannot do so with certainty.
Many scholia begin with words which actually refer back to the critical signs such as oti, pros, dia such that the scholia really says “the diple lies here because…” etc. And in fact in some places the copyist actually puts the name of these signs.

Sometimes just the general word shmeion, or a derivative is used in some formulaic fashion. Othertimes shmeion is not connected to ANY critical sign, but in the sense that in the works of other scholars attention must be brought towards something.

The end of scholia are routinely marked with the usual (fishtail) mark, and less frequently a plus sign is written beforethe first scholia of the page.

Unlike other manuscripts, the scholia of the Venetus A are so orderly that each page ends with a completed scholia.

Even from the 15th century, Ven A was recognized as a grand vand very prized manuscript.

The first man to ever excerpt from the Ven A seems to be from a Florentine copy now held in the Marciana library which includes scholia which could hardly be form any other manuscript.

Dindorf gives examples of this copy and its similarities and small differences tothe Venetus A sd shown by Cobetus. There is little evidence of the manuscript’s use or mention until Villoison’s edition of the text, scholia, and critical signs, complete with a scholarly preface but loaded with poorly read scholia as he both omitted many and misread teh abbreviations. Bekkerus too did not do enough to fully fix the problems laid out by Villoison.Bekkerus too would confse the abbreviation of the manuscripts, making shcolia that appeard in one manuscript suddenly appear in another, also he would interpolate de’s such that individual comments were artificially glued together. Employed the help of two colleagues to compare the new edition with Bekkerus

In order to successfully emend the new edition he looked to other scholia which shared scholia with the Venetus A in some cases, though, emendatations which were of an unceratin nature he noted. Still, he recognizes the danger of such an endeavor as the later scholar who used the Venetus A did not always exactly quote the Ven. a in their editions and sometimes pervert what is actually being said. Some scholia can be emended from other grammarians, though this carries the same warnings as taking from other manuscripts. He lists other ways he was able to emend the text. (Eustathius) but excludes others. In his words, it’s A) too much work and B) other learned men will be untrustoworthy of then later do the work of trying to re-emend in the end.

Dindorf presents the scholia of Ven A as its own distinct unit, not mixed in with the others. Wants this manuscript to be entrusted in a manner similar to parallel examples in Sophocles and Aeschylus.

Expounds upon the uniqueness of the Ven. A. Rumors of other archetypes have been debunked and no other contains the signs of Aristarchus as well as so copious of excerpt from Didymus, Nicanor, Herodean, and Aristonicus.

In terms of those 19 replacement folii, Dindorf uses a 15th c. manuscript apograph found in a French monastery to fill out the lacuna. While Dindorf considers it a credible source when dealing with these lacuna, it cannot put forth even a single emending words in an other part of the manuscript. 
